the baby spends the first few months of
its life clinging to its mother and from
this privileged and protected position
it has a grandstand view of what's going
on and how things are done these
particular chimps living in the forests
of the Ivory Coast have devised a
special skill all of their own they've
learned how to crack nuts and these are
now a favorite part of their diet but
when you're only nine months old
watching mother crack nuts loses its
fascination after a bit the shells on
the other hand have possibilities as
toys
you also need to learn pretty quickly
who among the adults is likely to be
your friend and who it might be safer to
steer clear on this slightly older
infant is beginning to follow the big
boys and copy the way they behave so
discovering what life is like among the
grown-ups and mother is always there to
provide comfort and protection when
things get a bit battling and worrisome
not cracking is a complicated business
and involves some of the most advanced
tool using techniques practiced by any
animal
it's no use just bashing a stick on the
ground you have to have a decent anvil
nuts have to be collected and then
carried to the place where they can be
cracked
the anvil is almost always the root of a
tree
you